docs/HopFacet.md, before:

# Hop Facet

## How it works

The Hop Facet works by forwarding Hop specific calls to the [Hop Bridge contract](https://github.com/hop-protocol/contracts/blob/master/contracts/bridges/L2_Bridge.sol). Hop works by swapping tokens into intermediate **h** tokens before bridging. For example to send **USDC** from one chain to another, we need to swap **USDC** for **hUSDC** and then send them to the Hop bridge contract. Hop provides a useful [wrapper contract](https://github.com/hop-protocol/contracts/blob/master/contracts/bridges/L2_AmmWrapper.sol#L40) to do this for us so we only need to worry about sending **USDC** and calling [`swapAndSend`](https://github.com/hop-protocol/contracts/blob/3747b0b41defddc5b3c8ca328057847cd987c2c8/contracts/bridges/L2_AmmWrapper.sol#L40-L78) on the wrapper. Native tokens like **ETH** can be sent directly to the bridge.

Only _hopData.nativeFee is handled by the contract; relayerFee and bonderFee are displayed in the UI but not used on-chain.
If there's no native fee (e.g. for ERC20 transfers), our API sets _hopData.nativeFee to 0.

```mermaid
graph LR;
    D{LiFiDiamond}-- DELEGATECALL -->HopFacet;
    HopFacet -- CALL --> H(Hop Bridge)
    HopFacet -- CALL --> W(Hop AMM Wrapper) --> H
```

## Public Methods

- `function initHop(Config[] calldata configs)`
  - Initializer method. Sets bridges for the specific assets
- `function registerBridge(address assetId, address bridge)`
  - Register method. Sets bridge for the specific asset
- `function startBridgeTokensViaHop(BridgeData memory _bridgeData, HopData calldata _hopData)`
  - Simply bridges tokens using Hop
- `function swapAndStartBridgeTokensViaHop(BridgeData memory _bridgeData, SwapData[] calldata _swapData, HopData calldata _hopData)`
  - Performs swap(s) before bridging tokens using Hop

## Hop Specific Parameters

Some of the methods listed above take a variable labeled `_hopData`. This data is specific to Hop and is represented as the following struct type:

```solidity
/// @param bonderFee The amount to pay bonders for facilitating the bridge.
/// @param amountOutMin The minimum acceptable amount of hTokens to receive after swapping via the wrapper.
/// @param deadline The time the transaction must be completed or revert.
/// @param destinationAmountOutMin The minimum acceptable amount of tokens to receive after bridging.
/// @param destinationDeadline The time the transaction must be completed or revert.
/// @param relayer The address of the relayer at the destination.
/// @param relayerFee The amount distributed to the relayer at the destination. This is subtracted from the `amount`.
/// @param nativeFee Native fee for the bridging.
struct HopData {
  uint256 bonderFee;
  uint256 amountOutMin;
  uint256 deadline;
  uint256 destinationAmountOutMin;
  uint256 destinationDeadline;
  address relayer;
  uint256 relayerFee;
  uint256 nativeFee;
}
```

## Swap Data

Some methods accept a `SwapData _swapData` parameter.

Swapping is performed by a swap specific library that expects an array of calldata to can be run on various DEXs (i.e. Uniswap) to make one or multiple swaps before performing another action.

The swap library can be found [here](../src/Libraries/LibSwap.sol).

## LiFi Data

Some methods accept a `BridgeData _bridgeData` parameter.

This parameter is strictly for analytics purposes. It's used to emit events that we can later track and index in our subgraphs and provide data on how our contracts are being used. `BridgeData` and the events we can emit can be found [here](../src/Interfaces/ILiFi.sol).

## Getting Sample Calls to interact with the Facet

In the following some sample calls are shown that allow you to retrieve a populated transaction that can be sent to our contract via your wallet.

All examples use our [/quote endpoint](https://apidocs.li.fi/reference/get_quote) to retrieve a quote which contains a `transactionRequest`. This request can directly be sent to your wallet to trigger the transaction.

The quote result looks like the following:

```javascript
const quoteResult = {
  id: '0x...', // quote id
  type: 'lifi', // the type of the quote (all lifi contract calls have the type "lifi")
  tool: 'hop', // the bridge tool used for the transaction
  action: {}, // information about what is going to happen
  estimate: {}, // information about the estimated outcome of the call
  includedSteps: [], // steps that are executed by the contract as part of this transaction, e.g. a swap step and a cross step
  transactionRequest: {
    // the transaction that can be sent using a wallet
    data: '0x...',
    to: '0x...',
    value: '0x00',
    from: '{YOUR_WALLET_ADDRESS}',
    chainId: 100,
    gasLimit: '0x...',
    gasPrice: '0x...',
  },
}
```

A detailed explanation on how to use the /quote endpoint and how to trigger the transaction can be found [here](https://docs.li.fi/products/more-integration-options/li.fi-api/transferring-tokens-example).

**Hint**: Don't forget to replace `{YOUR_WALLET_ADDRESS}` with your real wallet address in the examples.

### Cross Only

To get a transaction for a transfer from 1 USDT on Gnosis to USDT on Polygon you can execute the following request:

```shell
curl 'https://li.quest/v1/quote?fromChain=DAI&fromAmount=1000000&fromToken=USDT&toChain=POL&toToken=USDT&slippage=0.03&allowBridges=hop&fromAddress={YOUR_WALLET_ADDRESS}'
```

### Swap & Cross

To get a transaction for a transfer from 1 USDT on Gnosis to USDC on Polygon you can execute the following request:

```sh
curl 'https://li.quest/v1/quote?fromChain=DAI&fromAmount=1000000&fromToken=USDT&toChain=POL&toToken=USDC&slippage=0.03&allowBridges=hop&fromAddress={YOUR_WALLET_ADDRESS}'
```

Commit message:

Update HopFacet documentation and comments to clarify the usage of _hopData.nativeFee and recommend using the LiFi API for interactions

docs/HopFacet.md, after:

# Hop Facet

## How it works

The Hop Facet works by forwarding Hop specific calls to the [Hop Bridge contract](https://github.com/hop-protocol/contracts/blob/master/contracts/bridges/L2_Bridge.sol). Hop works by swapping tokens into intermediate **h** tokens before bridging. For example to send **USDC** from one chain to another, we need to swap **USDC** for **hUSDC** and then send them to the Hop bridge contract. Hop provides a useful [wrapper contract](https://github.com/hop-protocol/contracts/blob/master/contracts/bridges/L2_AmmWrapper.sol#L40) to do this for us so we only need to worry about sending **USDC** and calling [`swapAndSend`](https://github.com/hop-protocol/contracts/blob/3747b0b41defddc5b3c8ca328057847cd987c2c8/contracts/bridges/L2_AmmWrapper.sol#L40-L78) on the wrapper. Native tokens like **ETH** can be sent directly to the bridge.

- `_hopData.nativeFee` is a legacy parameter that is currently not in use. The LiFi API sets this value to 0.
- Direct contract interaction without using the LiFi API can lead to unexpected behavior that is why it is strongly recommended to use the LiFi API for all Hop bridge interactions

```mermaid
graph LR;
    D{LiFiDiamond}-- DELEGATECALL -->HopFacet;
    HopFacet -- CALL --> H(Hop Bridge)
    HopFacet -- CALL --> W(Hop AMM Wrapper) --> H
```

## Public Methods

- `function initHop(Config[] calldata configs)`
  - Initializer method. Sets bridges for the specific assets
- `function registerBridge(address assetId, address bridge)`
  - Register method. Sets bridge for the specific asset
- `function startBridgeTokensViaHop(BridgeData memory _bridgeData, HopData calldata _hopData)`
  - Simply bridges tokens using Hop
- `function swapAndStartBridgeTokensViaHop(BridgeData memory _bridgeData, SwapData[] calldata _swapData, HopData calldata _hopData)`
  - Performs swap(s) before bridging tokens using Hop

## Hop Specific Parameters

Some of the methods listed above take a variable labeled `_hopData`. This data is specific to Hop and is represented as the following struct type:

```solidity
/// @param bonderFee The amount to pay bonders for facilitating the bridge.
/// @param amountOutMin The minimum acceptable amount of hTokens to receive after swapping via the wrapper.
/// @param deadline The time the transaction must be completed or revert.
/// @param destinationAmountOutMin The minimum acceptable amount of tokens to receive after bridging.
/// @param destinationDeadline The time the transaction must be completed or revert.
/// @param relayer The address of the relayer at the destination.
/// @param relayerFee The amount distributed to the relayer at the destination. This is subtracted from the `amount`.
/// @param nativeFee Native fee for the bridging.
struct HopData {
  uint256 bonderFee;
  uint256 amountOutMin;
  uint256 deadline;
  uint256 destinationAmountOutMin;
  uint256 destinationDeadline;
  address relayer;
  uint256 relayerFee;
  uint256 nativeFee;
}
```

## Swap Data

Some methods accept a `SwapData _swapData` parameter.

Swapping is performed by a swap specific library that expects an array of calldata to can be run on various DEXs (i.e. Uniswap) to make one or multiple swaps before performing another action.

The swap library can be found [here](../src/Libraries/LibSwap.sol).

## LiFi Data

Some methods accept a `BridgeData _bridgeData` parameter.

This parameter is strictly for analytics purposes. It's used to emit events that we can later track and index in our subgraphs and provide data on how our contracts are being used. `BridgeData` and the events we can emit can be found [here](../src/Interfaces/ILiFi.sol).

## Getting Sample Calls to interact with the Facet

In the following some sample calls are shown that allow you to retrieve a populated transaction that can be sent to our contract via your wallet.

All examples use our [/quote endpoint](https://apidocs.li.fi/reference/get_quote) to retrieve a quote which contains a `transactionRequest`. This request can directly be sent to your wallet to trigger the transaction.

The quote result looks like the following:

```javascript
const quoteResult = {
  id: '0x...', // quote id
  type: 'lifi', // the type of the quote (all lifi contract calls have the type "lifi")
  tool: 'hop', // the bridge tool used for the transaction
  action: {}, // information about what is going to happen
  estimate: {}, // information about the estimated outcome of the call
  includedSteps: [], // steps that are executed by the contract as part of this transaction, e.g. a swap step and a cross step
  transactionRequest: {
    // the transaction that can be sent using a wallet
    data: '0x...',
    to: '0x...',
    value: '0x00',
    from: '{YOUR_WALLET_ADDRESS}',
    chainId: 100,
    gasLimit: '0x...',
    gasPrice: '0x...',
  },
}
```

A detailed explanation on how to use the /quote endpoint and how to trigger the transaction can be found [here](https://docs.li.fi/products/more-integration-options/li.fi-api/transferring-tokens-example).

**Hint**: Don't forget to replace `{YOUR_WALLET_ADDRESS}` with your real wallet address in the examples.

### Cross Only

To get a transaction for a transfer from 1 USDT on Gnosis to USDT on Polygon you can execute the following request:

```shell
curl 'https://li.quest/v1/quote?fromChain=DAI&fromAmount=1000000&fromToken=USDT&toChain=POL&toToken=USDT&slippage=0.03&allowBridges=hop&fromAddress={YOUR_WALLET_ADDRESS}'
```

### Swap & Cross

To get a transaction for a transfer from 1 USDT on Gnosis to USDC on Polygon you can execute the following request:

```sh
curl 'https://li.quest/v1/quote?fromChain=DAI&fromAmount=1000000&fromToken=USDT&toChain=POL&toToken=USDC&slippage=0.03&allowBridges=hop&fromAddress={YOUR_WALLET_ADDRESS}'
```
